[MUSIC]
So far, we've only drawn
the model with two levels.
But in reality, there's nothing that'll
stop us from adding more layers.
For example, instead of fixing
the values for the hyper parameters in
the previous segment,
those hyper parameters were the mu naught,
the sigma naught,
the nu knot and the beta knot.
We could specify just numbers for
those, or we could have specified
prior distributions for those variables
to make this a hierarchical model.
One reason we might do this is if
the data are hierarchically organized so
that the observations
are naturally grouped together.
We will examine these types of
hierarchical models in depth
later in the course.
Another simple example
of a hierarchical model
is one you saw already
in the previous course.
Let's write it as yi given mu and
sigma squared,
so this is just like the model from the
previous lesson, will be independent and
identically distributed normal with
a mean mu and a variance, sigma squared.
The next step, instead of doing
independent priors for mu and sigma
squared, we're going to have the prior for
mu depend on the value of sigma squared.
That is given sigma squared,
mu follows a normal distribution
with mean mu naught, just some hyper
parameter that you're going to chose.
And the variance of this
prior will be sigma squared,
this parameter, divided by omega naught.
Another hyper parameter
that will scale it.
We now have a joint distribution of y and
mu given sigma squared.
So finally, we need to complete the model
with the prior 4 sigma squared.
We'll use our standard inverse gamma with
the same hyper parameters as last time.
This model has three layers.
And mu depends on sigma right here.
The graphical representation for
this model looks like this.
We start with the variables that
don't depend on anything else.
So that would be sigma squared and
move down the chain.
So here, the next variable is mu
which depends on sigma squared.
And then dependent on both,
we have the yi's.
We use a double circle because
the yi's are observed,
their data, and we're going to
assume that they're exchangeable.
So let's put them on a plate here for
i in 1 to n
The distribution of yi depends
on both mu and sigma squared, so
we'll draw curves connecting
those pieces there.
To simulate hypothetical data
from this model, we would
have to first draw from the distribution
of the prior for sigma squared.
Then the distribution for
mu which depends on sigma squared.
And once we've drawn both of these,
then we can draw random draws from
the y's,
which of course depends on both of those.
With multiple levels, this is
an example of a hierarchical model.
Once we have a model specification,
we can write out what the full
posterior distribution for all
the parameters given the data looks like.
Remember that the numerator
in Bayes' theorem
is the joint distribution of all
random quantities, all the nodes
in this graphical representation
over here from all of the layers.
So for this model that we have right here,
we have a joint distribution
that'll look like this.
We're going to write the joint
distribution of everything y1 up to yn,
mu and sigma squared,
Using the chain rule of probability,
we're going to multiply
all of the distributions
in the hierarchy together.
So let's start with the likelihood piece.
And we'll multiply that by the next layer,
the distribution of mu,
given sigma squared.
And finally, with the prior for
sigma squared.
So what do these expressions
right here look like?
The likelihood right here in
this level because they're all
independent will be a product
of normal densities.
So we're going to multiply
the normal density for
each yi, Given those parameters.
This, again, is shorthand right here for
the density of a normal distribution.
So that represents this piece right here.
The conditional prior of mu given
sigma squared is also a normal.
So we're going to multiply this
by a normal distribution of mu,
where its parameters are mu naught and
sigma squared over omega naught.
And finally, we have the prior for
sigma squared.
We'll multiply by the density
of an inverse gamma for
sigma squared given the hyper
parameters mu naught,
sorry, that is given, the hyper
parameters mu naught and and beta naught.
What we have right here is the joint
distribution of everything.
It is the numerator in Bayes theorem.
Let's remind ourselves really fast
what Bayes theorem looks like again.
We have that the posterior distribution
of the parameter given the data
is equal to the likelihood,
Times the prior.
Over the same thing again.
So this gives us in the numerator the
joint distribution of everything which is
what we've written right here.
In Bayes theorem, the numerator and the
denominator are the exact same expression
accept that we integrate or
marginalize over all of the parameters.
Because the denominator is
a function of the y's only, which
are known values,
the denominator is just a constant number.
So we can actually write the posterior
distribution as being proportional to,
this symbol right here
represents proportional to.
The joint distribution of the data and
parameters, or
the likelihood times the prior.
The poster distribution is proportional
to the joint distribution,
or everything we have right here.
In other words,
what we have already written for
this particular model is proportional
to the posterior distribution of mu and
sigma squared, given all of the data.
The only thing missing in this
expression right here is just some
constant number that causes
the expression to integrate to 1.
If we can recognize this expression
as being proportional to a common
distribution, then our work is done,
and we know what our
posterior distribution is.
This was the case for
all models in the previous course.
However, if we do not
use conjugate priors or
if the models are more complicated,
then the posterior distribution will
not have a standard form
that we can recognize.
We're going to explore a couple of
examples of this issue
in the next segment.
[MUSIC]